---
title: "1st Workshop on Hot Topics in Distributed Machine Learning"

description: "in conjunction with ICDCS 2025, 20 - 23 July, Glasgow, Scotland, UK"
# 1. To ensure Netlify triggers a build on our exampleSite instance, we need to change a file in the exampleSite directory.
theme_version: '2.8.2'
cascade:
  featured_image: '/images/glasgow.jpg'
---


Modern society is witnessing the third spring of AI2, where Distributed Machine Learning (DiML) systems are used on a daily basis in several contexts such as healthcare, mobile, computer vision, commercial activities, finance, and natural language processing. However, designing DiML systems is not trivial and several challenges emerge to ensure reliability, efficiency, and trustworthiness. Thus, academia and industry constantly research on solutions to these challenges, leading to the need for more venues where DiML becomes the principal agenda. However, common denominators for all of the available DiML-related workshops are the investigation specificity (mainly focusing on the network perspective) and the lack of interest towards the lessons learned/to be learned from unsuccessful experiments or new perspectives on well-established topics. To overcome such limitations, we picture HotDiML extending to a broader agenda, thinking of it as a platform where researchers can think critically, bring experiences not only about success but also failure, and a venue where constructive discussions can take place, withstanding the test of time. HotDiML encourages novel
directions, accepting position papers that may not be fully developed, but that offer a fresh perspective or critical analysis of the current state of the art. These papers, despite potentially lacking extensive validation, may provide valuable insights that contribute to advancing the field. Our HotDiML concept is backed up by different unconventional workshops on multiple fields – e.g., HotNets in networking3 and PerFail in pervasive computing4 –, where the hot topic context is flexible to change over the years according to the advancements in the field. All the above considered, this workshop invites researchers and practitioners working in the DiML domain to: (i) provide thorough insights on challenges and open questions regarding the design and adoption of DiML systems, (ii) present preliminary (un)successful results on novel ideas, (iii) challenge other works with position papers providing constructive critiques or puncture existing work, and (iv) present lessons learned while testing a valuable hypothesis.